Kate Brookhyser 
Application essay

###1. Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to   
###programming so far?###

I am pursuing a career in programming because I want to create programs that help students  
to participate fully and succeed academically.  Several years ago, I attended a speech by  
game designer Jane McGonigal, who spoke about games that helped people to live better  
lives. She discussed a game she created, called Superbetter, to help herself out of  
depression.  As a social worker, I was inspired by how effective this could be, and how  
much potential it had to help people.  I also noticed how many amazing programs and games  
my clients were already using.   I realized that programmers have a unique power to help  
many people and that, with my knowledge and experience, I could make a great contribution  
to that work.   

To educate myself, I have been taking lessons with Code Academy, Kahn Academy, and Try  
Ruby.  I’ve conducted informational interviews with programmers about their experiences,  
as well as gender disparity in the field.  I’ve followed technology news and information  
in periodicals such as the New York Times and NPR-Online to familiarize myself with  
current issues and products.  I have also been researching companies that are designing  
products that inspire me.  

###2. What are your professional goals for the next 2 years, the next 5 years? ##

My career goal is to work with a company that produces technology that helps students  
succeed at meeting academic goals and overcoming disabilities. There are many exciting  
products and tools available now, such as IRISNotes, Equil JOT,  iReadWrite, and Ginger  
writing software.  In the next two years, I hope to have graduated with my certificate,   
and be employed at a company that develops these kinds of products.  In the next five  
years, I would like to take a lead role in designing and developing these products.  I  
believe my degree in social work would be a major asset, in addition to my knowledge of  
the practical application of these products within a population.  One area of interest  
would be to address the issues of severe anxiety for children with learning disabilities,  
by confronting both disabilities and anxiety simultaneously.  This could be accomplished  
with a product that uses strength-based, encouraging language to help students with  
learning disabilities stay organized and focused, while remaining unobtrusive. This could  
include features to assist with time management, tracking assignments, and setting  
reminders.  The program could also encourage mindfulness and stress reduction exercises,  
such as biofeedback.  

###3. Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you leared a lot from. If you ##
###encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?##

An example of a mistake I made occurred near the beginning of my time as a wraparound  
facilitator.  At the end of a meeting, I discovered that our team did not understand my  
role, or what specific help I could offer.  I realized then that I had been too focused on  
my clients’ crisis and that I had neglected to articulate what our work together should  
accomplish.  This was an extremely important step that needed to occur with all my clients  
in order to set clear boundaries and expectations.  I learned that, despite whatever chaos   
was occurring for a client, it was essential that we first sit down and explicitly discuss  
who I was and what help I could provide.  Only then could we start our work together.   
Going forward, I was sure to make time for this conversation with each new client and  
team.  I discovered that clients appreciated this step even when they had urgent needs.   
When leading groups in the future, it is a priority that I orient the group to what we are  
doing and establish what my role will be.  

###4. Have you taught yourself anything before? Describe what you learned and how you##
###approached it.##

Games, puzzles, and figuring out how things work have always been a passion of mine, and I  
taught myself to find solutions through reading books, repetition, and persistence.  As a  
child, I mastered an African bead game, Mancala, so that no one in my family could beat  
me.  I would play against myself, over and over, until I could see every angle. I saw  
origami as a puzzle, and I learned all kinds of designs, including paper cranes.  I read a  
book about origami, and then repeated the steps on specific designs until I knew them by  
heart. I also loved breaking apart and fixing small electronic toys. As a kid, I was very  
proud when I able to fix a broken electronic toy bus.  I remember taking fastidious notes  
as I took it apart, so that I was sure to put it back together correctly.  

As an adult, I still love puzzles, though I have less time to do them.  Another activity  
that I approach like a puzzle is cooking.  I love to cook and eat delicious food, and to  
read about cooking, recipes, and techniques.  I often test recipes repeatedly until I am  
satisfied with the finished result.  


	